In today’s world as every profession tends to become more professional and efficient, the world of sports has become a major financial giant with these innovations. As this expansion continues, the margin of error has been narrowed for both athletes and teams. Desire of excellence has pushed these athletes and teams to find ways to evaluate performances of individuals and gain a general understanding of their performance. As for the basketball, this quest for individual analysis had started when NBA introduced us with the “box score”, where officials kept every player’s point, rebound assist etc. to evaluate each player’s performance after a match just by looking at stat sheet. For quite some time, this method was enough for the coaches, team managements and fans but as the industry grew and become more competitive over the years, these metrics weren’t satisfying anyone. So, stat analysts came with the idea of advanced metrics and data analytics. These innovations helped team managements and coaches to work more efficiently and bring their team success. 
 This project aims in a similar way, enhancing the analysis of NBA players by introducing a customized metric, Customized Efficiency Rating (CER), aiming to reflect more accurate results than the traditional statistics. The primary object of this project is to classify NBA players who were selected as All-Star players throughout 2019 to 2024 into three performance categories: MVP caliber, All-NBA Caliber and All-Star Caliber. This classification helps us to distinguish players who are top performers, solid contributor, and standout talents within all of the All-Star selections.
 By using the machine learning techniques and a dataset consist of All-Star players of 2019-2024, this project seeks to create a data-driven approach to predict player efficiency. With classification, not only helps us to have a better player assessment but also helps enhancing decision making processes related to scouting and contract negotiations procedure.
 In this report, I’ll be showing the processes of creating a dataset, developing the efficiency metric, implementing machine learning models and experimental results.
